“Rhombi vs Hexagons” is a simplified version of the game “Plants vs Zombies” developed using
“GFX Framework” — a graphics framework used by the Polytechnic University of Bucharest.

1. Rules

The purpose of the game is to defend the “base” against enemies, using turrets that shoot
projectiles. The enemies are of four types (based on color), and each can only be attacked by a
turret of the same type.
Enemies come from the right side of the screen on three horizontal lines. Turrets can be placed
on a 3x3 grid and only attack enemies on the same line. Depending on the type, turrets cost from
one to four points. Points periodically spawn on the screen and can be collected. Each time an
enemy crosses the red line, that is the base, one of the three lives available initially is lost. When
all lives are lost, the game is over.
Between the line and the grid, one-time aids are present, which attack everything in their path
once an enemy touches them

2. Implementation

2.1. Visual Elements

In GFX, shapes are composed of triangles. They are created using a combination of vertex and
index vectors. Inside the vertex matrix, each vertex is specified using its coordinates along the X,
Y and Z axes. Afterwards, inside the index vector, each triangle is specified by listing its indexes.

• Playing Field

The playing field comprises a 3x3 grid made up of squares, where turrets can be and a
rectangle placed vertically, which acts as the base. Both the squares and the rectangles
are made using two triangles.

• Turrets

The turrets are composed of a rhombus and a rectangle pointing rightward. The rhombi
are also built using two triangles.

• Enemies

The enemies take the shape of hexagons with an outline colored differently. Hexagons
are built using six triangles with the center of the hexagon being a common index for all
six.

• Projectiles/Points

Both the projectiles and points look like stars, although the projectiles are bigger in size
and match the color of the turret they are shot from. The stars are made up of five
triangles stacked on top of each other at different angles.

• One-time aids

One-time aids take the form of symmetrical crosses, resembling the cross found on a
first aid kit. The crosses comprise of two rectangles perpendicular to each other.

• GUI

Situated in the upper side of the screen, the GUI (Graphical User Interface) comprises
four clickable squares, each containing one type of turret. Underneath, the price of the
turrets is present in the form of stars. To the right, three red squares are present to
indicate the number of lives left. Underneath the lives, the collected stars are shown.

2.2. Animations

• Enemy and projectile movement

Hexagons move in a straight line, appearing from the right side of the screen, toward
the base situated in the left side, and rotate counterclockwise.
Projectiles also move in a straight line from the barrel of the turrets to the right, toward
enemies, and rotate clockwise.

• Vanishing animation

A turret vanishes when a hexagon touches or the player right-clicks them, by shrinking
over the course of two seconds. Likewise, hexagons vanish when hit by projectiles, while
the latter vanish instantly when hitting an enemy.

2.3. Collision Detection
The collision detection mechanism is accomplished by creating round invisible hitboxes that
surround the turrets, projectiles and hexagons. Collision is achieved when the distance between
the centers of the circles is smaller than the sum of their radii.

2.4. Player interaction

• Collecting Points

Point stars use a similar hitbox to turrets, projectiles and enemies, but take the shape of
a square instead of a circle. By clicking inside the hitbox with the cursor, the player is
able to collect the points.

• Placing and Deleting Turrets

Turrets can be placed using the same square hitboxes but require an additional
mechanism called “drag & drop”. To place a turret, the player moves the cursor inside
the square containing the desired type of turret and left-clicks and holds the button. If
the player has enough points, the turret can be dragged and placed. The turret is placed
and points are deducted only if the cursor is inside an empty grid square.
Using the same hitbox, right-clicking on a turret will make it vanish from the grid making
the square empty again.
